So?
This is the only alligator.
Four minutes past. We walk in one minute.
He was clear on that.
He's coming.
No, he's too young to
have that kind of access.
Uh, what time does
the restaurant open?
Noon. But the food's
a little too spicy.
This way.
- Excuse me.
- Uh-huh.
Thank you.
Right here.
It's, uh, really great
to finally meet you guys.
So, first thing, can I get
your cell phones, please?
Thank you.
We want Laura to be
the only one recording, right?
As discussed? Thank you.
I actually bought this.
It blocks UHF frequencies.
You've been
photographed before, right?
Yeah, it's been a while
since anybody took a photo of me, so...
Try thinking of
this as your friend.
Take your time.
Um...
Can you start by telling us
why you did what you did
and, uh, how you gained access
to such a vast
amount of information,
all of which I read
on the plane
- and...
- Glenn.
Uh, how about we just start
with your name? Okay?
My name is
Edward Joseph Snowden.
I'm 29 years old.
I work as a private
contractor for the NSA.
I've also worked as
a private contractor
for the CIA and directly
for the Agency.
I've worked in various jobs
in the intelligence industry
for the last nine years.
I've been a systems engineer, uh,
been a solutions consultant...
Uh...
And a senior advisor for
the Central Intelligence Agency.
- Rangers...
So you
wanna be Special Forces?
Sir, yes, sir!
I think Special Forces
would be ashamed
to call you soldiers.
Am I right?
Sir, no, sir!
Your left.
Your left, right. Your left.
Went from driving Cadillacs
To driving convoys in Iraq
Move it, soldier!
Go! Go!
Move now!
Move!
You better get going!
Pick it up,
you waste of space!
Let's move!
Come on, soldier! Go!
Come on, darling!
Snowden?
What the hell are you doing?
Nothing, sir!
Where is your fucking heart?
Right here, sir!
I want you to reach way down in
that pathetic excuse of a chest,
and you rip it out.
You find your heart,
and then you get
your broke ass on my tower!
You got that?
Sir, yes, sir!
Now get the fuck
out of my face!
I need you on my tower,
gentlemen! Let's move!
Move! Move! Let's go!
Rise and shine, maggots!
Get your hands off your dicks, and
get the fuck out of my barracks!
You guys got one minute!
Fall out! Move, move, move!
Get the hell out here! Get
the hell out of my barracks!
Move it!
Keep moving!
Let's go!
All right, gentlemen.
- Harrison?
- Here!
- Carson?
- Ramirez?
- Here!
Fuck!
- Pierce?
- Here!
Coulson?
Help!
Snowden!
Where the fuck is Snowden?
Help!
You know, you've been walking
around on two broken legs...
Best I can tell, for weeks.
Now this is what happens when
you put a 80-pound rucksack
on a 150-pound body.
You get these little stress
fractures and...
- Easy.
- Sorry.
They build up
in your tibias.
You don't get off of 'em,
and eventually they just bust.
Now, you're gonna be
here for a few weeks,
and then I'd count on
another eight weeks or so
on the crutches.
Okay,
and then when do I go back?
Son, you ever again
land on those legs of yours,
airborne or not, those
bones will turn to powder.
I'm gonna authorize
an administrative discharge.
Plenty of other ways
to serve your country.
Have you ever committed
a crime for which you weren't caught?
No.
Have you ever
cheated on an exam?
No.
Do you believe
the United States
is the greatest
country in the world?
Yes.
Why do you
want to join the CIA?
How would you
explain the Internet to a child?
Granddad retired as
an admiral and joined the FBI.
Dad's in the Coast Guard,
30-year man.
What has been the
most important day in your life?
9/11.
We thought my grandfather
was inside the Pentagon.
Uh, turned out he was
off-site that day.
You wanted
to be Special Forces?
Yes, sir. Yeah, I love their motto.
De oppresso liber.
Is that what you hope to do
with us? Free people from oppression?
I'd like to help my country
make a difference in the world.
Uh, the Internet
is a technology
that has the power
to let everyone in the world
understand each other.
Missed a perfect score on the
ASVAB test by a single question.
Crushed the language
learning test.
Some Mandarin,
some Japanese.
And no high school diploma.
So why did you stop
attending high school?
I had to make money. My parents
were divorcing at the time.
Any other influences?
I'd say Joseph Campbell,
Star Wars,
Thoreau, Ayn Rand...
One man can stop
the motor of the world.
Atlas Shrugged.
Yes, sir. I believe that.
Let's try again.
Why do you want
to join the CIA?
Uh...
Well, frankly, sir,
it sounds really cool to have
top security clearance.
It's not enough.
Ordinarily. But these
are not ordinary times.
Bombs won't stop terrorism,
brains will,
and we don't have
nearly enough of those.
I'm gonna give you
a shot, Snowden.
Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.
You won't regret this.
My name's Corbin O'Brian.
I have many titles,
among them Senior Instructor.
You'll be joining
my class at The Hill.
Stop the vehicle.
Shut off the engine.
I need to see your ID.
All right. Using your left
hand only, pop the trunk.
Now place your hands
through the steering wheel
on the dashboard.
Through the steering wheel.
On the dashboard.
Do not exit the vehicle.
Right here. Right here.
Excuse me.
You'll be looking
for Corbin's class.
End of the hall, keep going
through the second set of doors.
Thank you.
Is that an Enigma?
No.
Enigma was broken.
This is the follow up,
the Sigaba. Never broken.
Cold War's greatest
encryption machine.
Tides of history ticked with
this motor and these rotors.
Wow! One day everyone's gonna
want a machine like this.
I always wanted to learn cryptography.
What's this one?
The Hot Line.
First direct link between
Washington and Moscow.
Probably
prevented World War III.
You got a name? How do I
know you're not the enemy?
Oh, sorry. Uh,
Snowden. Ed Snowden.
Hank Forrester.
Where'd you study, Snowden?
Mostly I'm, uh, self-taught.
You can tell me if you're
busy, but is that a Cray-1?
Why, yes. Yes, it is.
The first supercomputer.
You can get all of
this on a cell phone now.
Yeah. So you're, um,
an engineer?
Am I an engineer?
Instructor and counselor, too.
I'm supposed to keep
an eye on you CTs,
make sure you don't buckle
under the pressure.
Turn to drugs and booze.
Well, you won't have that problem with me.
I don't drink or do drugs.
What is your sin
of choice?
Uh, computers.
Well, then, Snowden, you've come
to the right little whorehouse.
The front lines in
the global war on terror
are not in Iraq
or Afghanistan.
They're here. In London,
Berlin,
Istanbul...
Any server,
any connection...
The modern battlefield
is everywhere.
Which means
you don't have to sit in the ditch
eating MREs or dodging mortar fire,
it means that if there is another
9/11, it'll be your fault.
Just as the last one
was my generation's.
Believe me, you do not want
to live with that burden.
We're gonna start
with an aptitude test.
Each of you is gonna build
a covert communications network
in your home city,
you're gonna deploy it,
back up your site, destroy it,
and restore it again.
The point of this
exercise is to keep
your infrastructure up
and running securely.
The average test
time is five hours.
If you take more than eight,
you will fail.
Mr. O'Brian?
I'm done, sir.
You don't have to tell me
when you've completed a stage.
No, I finished
the whole thing.
It's been 40 minutes.
Thirty-eight.
What?
Thirty-eight minutes.
Okay. Let's see
where you screwed up.
You didn't say we had
to do it in order, sir.
Sol, uh, broke
the sequence to save time,
and I automated the backup process
to run as I built the site.
Eyes on screens.
Sir?
What should I do now?
Whatever you want.
Hey.
Hi.
Finally.
Yeah.
Um, sorry.
Do you, um,
want anything?
No. Let's go for a walk.
You could use some sun.
Yeah.
You mentioned that earlier.
Sorry it took me
this long. I just...
You didn't want to see me on crutches.
I was not so agile.
And then this
new job hit. So...
Oh, yeah, what was it
you were doing again?
I'm doing analysis for
the State Department.
Right. Congratulations.
Thanks.
You're welcome.
Hey, can you
do me a favor
and, um, point in the direction
of the State Department?
Uh...
Yeah, it's that way.
Where? Are you sure?
I mean, I'm not that great
at orienting myself...
Not that great
at lying, either.
You're gonna have to work on
both if you wanna be a spy.
Where I came from,
everyone's parents
worked for
the "State Department."
Plus, every time you visited
my website this week,
which was quite often,
it was from an IP in Virginia.
You know how to run an IP trace?
Yeah.
I'm pretty sure that the State
Department has no offices in Virginia.
Huh?
All right,
let's see you strut it.
Let's see what?
Let's see you strut it. Show
me what you got, you know.
Your best catwalk.
Don't be shy.
Come on. You got this.
Uh... All right.
I don't know.
Drop Bush, not bombs!
Excuse me. Would you mind
signing our petition, please?
Yes, absolutely.
Thank you.
Thank you so much. Sir?
No, thank you.
Excuse me, ma'am.
Would you like to sign?
I actually just signed. Yeah.
Okay. Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Too much independent
spirit for you?
Uh, no, I just don't really
like bashing my country.
It's my country too, and right
now it has blood on its hands.
Sorry, I just... I have friends
who are over there right now.
I'm not talking
about the troops.
I'm talking about the moron
sending them to war.
Moron? You mean
our Commander-in-Chief?
Yeah, whatever you want to call him.
He's still wrong.
How do you know he's wrong?
You're just lashing out.
No, I'm not lashing out. I'm
questioning our government.
That's what we do
in this country.
That is the principle
that we were founded on.
Okay, but how about
questioning the liberal media?
I mean, you're just buying
into what one side is saying.
Maybe I am,
'cause my side is right.
See, that's funny, 'cause my side's right.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Uh...
Why is it smart conservatives
always make me so mad?
Probably because you don't
like hearing the truth.
You are a very frustrating
individual, you know that?
How am I going
to make you see?
I can see just fine,
thank you.
That help at all?
Nope. No, that did
nothing for me.
Tastes like liberal.
It's not my thing.
Is it constitutional
to bypass the Courts?
No. The Fourth Amendment
prevents searches
and seizures
without a warrant.
That's absolutely right,
Rio. Which means
your Commander-in-Chief, the
President of the United States,
is breaking the law.
That is what you're saying,
isn't it, Rio?
Well, I guess it depends
on who you talk to.
And if you talk
to journalists?
Who, more often than not,
don't have the full picture,
or neglect to report it,
you only get a partial truth.
Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act.
The FISA Court.
We do respect the Fourth
Amendment in this country,
and we issue warrants
based on suspicion.
But sometimes these warrants have
to be issued by secret courts,
so we don't alert
the suspects we're spying on.
And these court proceedings
are classified,
which means, surprise...
They don't appear in papers
such as The New York Times.
Did you see my test scores?
Yes. Top of my class.
Like you. What, here?
NSA. They liked me plenty.
They put me on all the best teams.
Soviet frontier. Desert Storm.
And then
the big new challenge,
find the terrorist in the Internet
haystack. Hell of a haystack.
Hundreds of
terabytes a minute.
I mean, it would take you 400
years to read the emails.
Then you have
to analyze them.
Sometimes, the more you
look, the less you see.
- What'd you come up with?
- Something beautiful.
In house.
For $3 million.
A program that could differentiate
between foreign and domestic,
encrypt every signal we weren't
targeting, so it would remain private.
It was elegant, streamlined.
It was the best
work I ever did.
Have a seat.
What was it called?
Ed, rising to
the top in our world
can sometimes
be hard on a man.
I mean... You think
you're making strides,
you think you're
taking the initiative.
And then, the next minute, they
grind your work out of existence.
They didn't use it?
Why not?
Well,
they never tell you why.
Two years later,
after 9/11,
a friend of mine
tells me about
this new contractor
program they're using.
Costs $4 billion
to deploy.
Modeled after mine but with
no filters, no automation.
Ingested everything.
They were drowning in data.
It was a fucking disaster.
Okay, but there must have been
some bigger picture, right?
I mean, spending that kind of money?
They're not stupid.
You would think intelligence
would count for something
in the intelligence
business.
Right. But you wanna
know what it really is?
What really sets
the agenda?
Military industrial
happiness management.
You keep the coffers
open in Congress,
you keep the money flowing
to the contractors.
Efficiency, results?
They go out the window.
Not to mention...
All right.
Well, you're late
for class.
Okay. Thank you.
Can I take another one?
Sure.
Did you ever say
anything to anybody?
Yeah. I went to legal.
We filed complaints.
Now here I am,
tucked away, teaching you.
Maybe that's more important,
in the long run.
You're getting better.
My favorite spot
on campus.
You hunt, Ed?
Uh...
Did some skeet shooting
with my dad a few times,
but, no,
I never went hunting.
We'll go one day.
That'd be great.
Mr. O'Brian,
can I ask you a question?
How about just
calling me Corbin?
Okay.
Thank you, sir. Uh, Corbin.
I was talking with Hank
Forrester and I wanted to know,
are all of our SIGINT programs
specifically targeted?
Of course. What good would
they be if they weren't? Hmm?
Yeah, I don't know.
You have a girlfriend, Ed?
Uh, nothing serious.
What's her name?
Lindsay.
She going with you?
No, I wouldn't want
to put her in any danger.
Well, you won't have to.
We're not sending you
to the Middle East.
Sir, I'm your best student.
Doesn't that count for something?
In 20 years, Iraq will be a
hellhole nobody cares about.
Terrorism's
a short-term threat.
The real threats will come
from China, Russia, Iran,
and they'll come as
SQL injections and malware.
Without minds like yours, this country
will be torn apart in cyberspace.
I don't want to risk
losing you
for some horseshit war
over sand and oil.
Sir, I'm surprised
to hear you say that.
You don't have to agree with your
politicians to be a patriot.
Sir, where are you sending me?
Take a moment.
Enjoy the view.
HEY-
This is Laura.
Hello.
Hello,
nice to meet you.
Hello, I'm Ewen MacAskill from the Guardian.
It's nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you, too.
Um, if you don't mind, uh,
I'd like to record some of...
Uh... Cell phones go
in the microwave.
Dare I ask why?
We'll get to that.
After you ask your questions.
Yeah, before...
Before we get on to the stories,
I need to know more about you.
Your career by Glenn's account
is very varied,
but the Guardian
needs evidence that...
Yeah. This is my diplomatic
passport for friendly countries,
my tourist passport
for everywhere else.
You can check
the visa stamps.
This is my NSA badge with Booz
Allen, my CIA badge with Dell,
and this is my DIA
instructor's badge.
This is a photo of me
with Michael Hayden,
who's a former head
of the NSA and the CIA.
When can you publish?
Okay, um, do you mind if I sit down?
No, please.
Uh, Glenn says
you want to, uh...
You want to tell people
your identity.
How do you think your
government's going to react?
Well, they'll charge me
under the Espionage Act.
And they'll say I endangered
national security,
and they'll demonize me,
and my friends and family.
And they'll throw me in jail.
That's the
best-case scenario.
And the worst?
Well, if I don't
have any media cover,
then I'll be rendered
by the CIA
and interrogated
outside of the law.
And they have a station
right up the street.
But how would they
know what you did?
Because I left a digital footprint in
my logs, so they'll figure it out.
I did not want
a manhunt.
I know what they would
do to my colleagues.
Look, Mr. MacAskill, uh,
this is not about money
or anything for me.
There's no hidden agenda.
I just wanted to get this data to
established journalists like yourselves,
so that you can present it
to the world,
and the people can decide
either I'm wrong
or there's something going on inside
the government that's really wrong.
So...
This one
is everything I have
on your British
intelligence agency, the GCHQ.
An encryption key
will follow.
You're gonna want your technical
people at the Guardian
to look through
that thoroughly.
There's a lot
of stuff there.
Listen,
they're gonna investigate,
and they're gonna
figure out what I've done.
And then they're
gonna come for me.
And now that
we've made contact,
they're gonna come
for all of you, too.
Uh... Um...
Do you mind if I go
look in the microwave?
Ewen. I'm on with Stuart.
Hi, Ewen.
Hi, Stuart. Look,
I've got one thing to say.
- The Guinness here is great.
- Wonderful...
Oh, absolutely
the genuine article.
Good.
But shockingly different
from what you'd expect.
So... Now we have the lawyers
to deal with. And no doubt the White House.
I got the go ahead.
That's great.
Oh, good.
Let's get started. We have
a lot to go through here,
and it's not easy reading.
We can start
by showing him XKeyscore.
Good idea. Ed, can you bring it
up again and walk us through it?
Yeah.
Do we all get
under there now?
He's protecting his passwords.
Okay. So...
This was introduced
during my first deployment
at the CIA in Geneva.
"XKeyscore."
What does that do?
It's like
a search interface.
What does it search for?
Anything you want.
What was your
assignment in Geneva?
Well, I was assigned with
diplomatic cover to the UN mission
to maintain the CIA's
computer security network.
I spent almost two years
around CIA field officers.
I don't see a time
stamp on any of this.
We have
a confirmation on the GSS.
I'm sorry, sir,
I don't understand.
Sherman says you hacked
the Human Resources site.
Yeah, it's my job
to find flaws.
The security of the HR site
is not your problem.
You went outside
the wheelhouse.
Okay, but just to clarify,
I did not hack it,
I showed that it
could be hacked.
You told me
to find a patch.
You have that
in writing?
Yes, I do. Remember, I sent
you the proof of concept.
Doesn't matter
what you did, Snowden.
Right or wrong, you need to let these
things be someone else's problem.
He's also put
a derog in your file.
Excuse me?
Let that be a lesson.
I don't want him
calling me again
about another
Ed Snowden moment.
Okay?
Why don't you take it easy
the rest of the day?
Go work on
the scrubbing pile.
That didn't look
like it went well.
Oh, hey, man. Uh, yeah. No, I just
got a derog for doing my job.
Politics, man. The
culture of fear wins again.
I can't get anything done here.
Yeah.
Hey, um, what about that idea
that we were talking about?
I'm working on it.
I'm waiting for a call back
from our friend
at The Hill.
Who, Corbin? You called Corbin?
Hmm.
You think he can
do something?
We'll see. Maybe some limited
field ops under my supervision.
Yes, that would be amazing.
I would love...
Easy, Ed. I've gotta see a cleric in Milan.
We'll talk after.
Okay. Thank you.
Damn, CIA does not like
to leave a trace, huh?
Can I help you?
You get curious
to check one out?
See what kind of crazy-ass
covert kill mission
you might be erasing
from history?
I'm sorry,
who are you with?
No Such Agency.
I'm Gabriel Sol.
I'm the 50-pound brain from the
Council of Wizards and Warlocks.
Excuse me?
Oh. Giving you your Intel
for Bucharest, dude.
Unless there's
another Dave Churchyard.
No. That's me.
Right this way.
I'll be right outside.
Stay if you want.
Uh, I don't have
authorization to use NSA programs.
Well, if you're
the messenger to Bucharest,
you must have
a PRIVAC clearance
to see the finished
Intel, yes?
Yeah...
Yeah, so what
difference does it make
if you see how
it's put together?
Well, it's up to you, man.
Uh, you're giving me
just names?
Uh, and a lot more
than names.
What I will be providing you and the
fine gentlemen of the Secret Service
is a list of every threat made about
the President since February 3rd.
And a profile of
every threat-maker.
And these are, like,
existing targets?
99% are gonna come from the
bulk collection program, so...
Upstream, Muscular,
Tempora, PRISM.
PRISM?
You got a little
Snow White in you.
Which makes me feel like the witch
bringing you a poisoned apple.
Here. Exhibit A.
Oakland resident Justin Pinsky
posted on a message board,
"Romania has a storied history
of executing their leaders,
"couldn't they do us a solid
and take out Bush?"
Now this looks juicy.
This is from a G-chat.
"...with the biggest python
you've ever seen." Hmm.
How is this all possible?
Um, keyword selectors.
"Attack," "take out Bush."
So think of it as
a Google search,
except instead of searching
only what people make public,
we're also looking at
everything they don't. So...
Emails, chats,
SMS, whatever.
Yeah, but which people?
The whole kingdom,
Snow White.
Which ambassador
was he again?
De La Hoya, with
World Trade Organization.
Right.
So...
O'Brian came through
for you.
He agrees your talents are being wasted.
You ready for a little action?
Really? What,
you mean right here?
Yeah. Now.
See the woman in
the pink number?
Credit Suisse. J.P. Morgan's on her arm.
Grandma's with Deutsche Bank.
Ten thousand bankers
in this town.
All you need to turn is one.
Socialize. Meet a few.
Preferably ones sitting on
a pile of dirty Saudi money
that's funding bin Laden.
Thank you very much. Church.
Church. Sure. Churchyard.
Mr. Debrinin asks
your business card, please.
An ambassador. Wow!
I wish I had your
schmoozing skills.
Uh, well,
that's why you have me.
Yeah. You don't know any
bankers, do you? Bankers?
Are you on some kind of
assignment or something?
Um, "Relationship cultivating."
And not well.
Let me help you.
No.
Yeah.
No, this is serious.
I know it's serious.
Trust me.
Any luck?
No, no bites.
Is there some kind
of trick to it?
It's all about finding
the pressure point.
Everything else is
just pushing on it.
Looks like
you're being summoned.
...we have to pay extra...
Marwan? May I interrupt?
This is
my boyfriend, Dave.
Hello, Dave. Nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you.
Marwan works at Monfort.
We were talking,
and after last week,
he may be able
to give you some tips.
Gentlemen, I'll see you inside.
Last week?
He's embarrassed. It was
a lot of money for us.
Day trading is a perilous sport.
You shouldn't be ashamed of it.
Yeah.
I'm gonna grab some food.
See you guys inside?
Sure.
You have a lovely girlfriend.
Thank you so much.
You know, I work in IT,
and so I just figured
I could crack the market
like a weak network.
May I ask, how precipitous
were your losses?
Well, I told Lindsay
it was 20,000,
but between you and me,
it was closer to 45.
Tried to recoup,
but that was a mistake,
and now without
any real grounding,
I feel like I'm just
sliding out of control.
Oh, I have seen it
many times.
And I'm always happy
to help a man
break a bad habit
before it gets going.
Oh, thank you.
I really appreciate that.
This is the cleanest
Pakistani I've ever seen.
We got no first-degree ties
to government or ISI,
no shady family.
I mean, second-degree contacts
are off the charts,
but that's... I mean, that's
everyone in the Middle East
with a six-figure income.
Well, it's not dirt that we need
necessarily, it's a pressure point.
Something intimate,
some kind of weakness.
Can we look through his family?
Mmm-hmm.
How about
his sister-in-law?
Yeah.
What is that, is that some
video that she sent somebody?
No, this is live.
Out of Paris.
What do you mean, live?
Optic Nerve. It's
camera and mic activation.
I wish we could take credit,
but the Brits wrote it.
Activation?
Yeah,
her laptop's off.
Or was, she just
forgot to close it.
Of course,
how would she know?
This shit is so sly, the webcam
light doesn't even turn on.
Hmm. I always wondered
what was under those.
Okay, look, let's stick
to family in Geneva.
All right?
Okay, Snow White.
Uh...
Fifteen-year-old daughter
at the International School.
Yeah. Uh, Facebook?
Is that possible?
Dude,
Facebook's my bitch.
Seriously?
Like, she fights
with her parents, or...
Don't worry, don't worry. I know all
the hooks for this kind of fishing.
Uh, query name. So email, keyword,
whatever selector you want.
And justification
is where I write...
In other words, turning your
daddy into a CIA informant.
Wait, that's it? That's it, bro.
You don't have to get
a FISA court order?
Mmm-mmm. No, not here.
XKeyscore's under 702 authority,
which means no warrants.
Okay, but U.S. targets then, you'd
have to get the court order?
You mean FISA? Yeah, they're just
a big-ass rubber stamp, dude.
I mean, FISA judges
are all appointed by
the Chief Justice,
who's like, you know...
Darth Vader when it comes
to national security. Boom.
Here we go.
Okay, okay. And the boy
at third base is...
Nadim. Okay. He's 18.
Salma says she wants
to marry him,
but is scared of
telling her parents.
What she doesn't know is that
his other name is Nicolas.
And he's currently banging
Geraldine and Julie.
And...
He and his Turkish mother
are here illegally.
That's it.
Ah, you like that?
I love these.
Man, what are
we doing here?
You're making people
very happy.
Mr. Marwan's bank
handles serious Saudi money,
and a whole bunch of
Russian billionaires.
What about any Al-Qaeda money?
Anything promising?
Ed, I'm up for
a promotion soon.
I will not forget
my friends.
Thank you.
This is all going kind of
fast though, right?
I mean, I just sent
some initial background.
There he is!
The man!
Hey, Marwan!
Dave. How wonderful
to see you.
Good to see you, too.
Uh, I was counting, Marwan, you snuck
in an extra half hour back there.
I'm afraid she was merely
listening to an old man's woes.
Oh, I see.
So, how are you,
Marwan?
I must tell you,
Dave, since we met,
my life has gone
somewhat Topsy-turvy.
Oh, no,
I'm sorry to hear that.
But your colleague
Charles here
has graciously
offered his help.
So I owe him and you
a great deal.
Can I ask
what happened?
My daughter had an...
Marwan's daughter
took too many sleeping pills.
She's all right.
It had something to do with her
boyfriend, who was recently deported.
We're trying to secure
a visa for him.
And even so,
I'm afraid that Salma will...
I'm sorry. I won't trouble
you with such matters.
No, no, you... Hey. You
talk as much as you want.
All right?
Family comes first.
Whoa!
Oh!
There's my beauty.
I'm never
like this before.
Oh, sure.
No, of course.
You sit down, huh?
Sit tight.
You sit tight.
What the fuck's
going on?
I have been acting
swiftly and effectively
on the very good signals
intelligence you've provided.
And if his daughter
had died?
We could have
used that too.
Are you serious? What, in
the name of a promotion?
Marwan can't be away
from his family right now.
So in the morning, when
he's facing a week in jail,
we're going to offer him a deal
and he won't turn it down.
Wait, jail? For what?
Drunk driving.
Now, I want you
to call the police.
Tell 'em you saw
a Mercedes headed north...
No, he's not driving
right now.
Look at him,
he'll kill himself.
Okay. I'll call 'em.
Hey!
He's not driving.
Remind me, are you authorized on
any of the NSA programs you used?
So we're both doing a little
fucked up shit here, huh?
Watch yourself, Ed. I will
tell him who you are.
You reveal the identity
of an undercover officer,
you're going to jail
for a lot longer than Marwan.
Hey!
HEY-
Sorry I'm so late.
How was work?
It was, uh...
It was all right. Yeah.
I have to
wake up in, like, three hours.
My flight's at 7:00.
Well, we'd better
be quick, then.
I will provide our intelligence
and law enforcement agencies
with the tools they need to track
and take out the terrorists
without undermining our
constitution and our freedom.
That means no
more illegal wiretapping
of American citizens.
No more ignoring the law
when it is inconvenient.
That is not who we are.
Hey, hon.
Hey.
What happened
to the London trip?
Uh...
Turns out I'm not going.
Oh.
What's going on?
Who's winning?
...and Michelle Obama
voted this morning in Chicago.
- I voted.
- In Arizona...
Still early.
...John and Cindy McCain voted,
and then they landed in Colorado
to defend a traditionally
Republican state
that has turned
into a battleground.
Hey. Let's see.
Obama ahead 67%
to 32%...
Come on, big ears.
Check out Florida.
Holy shit, he's gonna win it!
What, Florida?
Yeah!
That's big. Yeah.
It's huge!
You can act all nonchalant, but I know
you were starting to root for him.
I've been watching
your inner liberal grow.
For which I will take a modest
percentage of the credit.
And you deserve it.
What is this?
...in Missouri.
56% for McCain,
43% for Obama.
Oh, yeah, that. Just... Leave that there.
That's, uh...
Russian hackers.
The Agency says
they can activate
webcams now. So...
That's creepy.
Yes. It's really
bothering me.
Whatever. It's not a big deal.
You shouldn't let it bother you.
It's not a big deal? No.
What, that someone could
be watching you right now?
No, I'm not
hiding anything.
That's such
a bullshit line. What is?
I have nothing to hide. I don't.
Everyone does.
Okay, well then,
what do I have to hide?
Forget it. No,
No, never...
Let's just drop it.
Well, apparently you think that I'm
hiding something, so...
Okay, the other day,
your computer was open,
and I happened to notice you
were on the site where we met,
and you were looking
at other guys.
You just were looking
at my computer?
I wouldn't have
even brought this up.
You asked me,
"What do I have to hide?"
That's something
you're not telling me.
Well, it's not...
I don't do anything,
I don't meet any
of those people.
You're gone for weeks
at a time.
So it's like I'm peering
into other peoples' lives
because my own is
just temporarily on hold.
That sounds like
an excuse.
It's the truth.
I should have told you.
And I didn't.
I'm really sorry.
But it's not a big deal.
HEY-
Look at me.
I don't want anyone else.
I don't want
any other life.
Okay?
Listen, uh...
I didn't go to London today
'cause I resigned.
What?
It was personal differences,
and it was a matter
of principle.
Can you tell me
anything else?
Do you get
reposted, or...
No, no, I resigned
from the CIA.
So what does
that mean? What do we do?
I don't know. I'll figure
it out, but listen, I...
This is a good thing.
Trust me.
I do.
Hmm?
Hey.
He's gonna win.
52% for Obama,
48% for McCain.
Yeah, he'd better.
CNN can now project that
Barack Obama, 47 years old,
will become the President of the
United States-
Every agency and department
should know that this administration
stands on the side
not of those who seek
to withhold information,
but those who seek
to make it known.
Janine is
the website editor
of a small stateside office
of a British newspaper,
up against the most powerful
government in the world.
She won't be bullied.
We need to establish
that we're not compromising
national security
by publishing.
We need
to have alternatives.
Listen, Ed,
the real issue here is that
they, the White House,
are aware that Janine has a leaked
top secret FISA court order.
Anything could happen.
They could subpoena
the Guardian
and, for that matter,
they could
break through
that door any minute,
ending all of this.
We are running
out of time.
We seriously have to think about
doing this on our own website.
We have no choice.
Wait, you can't just
start dumping articles
on the Internet, Glenn!
Be serious.
Look at WikiLeaks. It
destroyed their credibility.
Look,Ed,
you said it yourself,
if this isn't done properly, the
world isn't gonna take notice.
You need experienced
journalists to lead the public
through some very,
very complicated stories.
We are
experienced journalists.
My feeling...
Has anyone called here before? Not once.
Not in three weeks.
Well, I'll...
Shall I answer it?
I'll tell 'em it's
the wrong number.
Yes?
No, I don't.
Okay. Thank you.
Asking if I want
turndown service.
She said the "Do not disturb"
sign was off the door.
So?
Do we wait?
Or go on our own?
Look, I said
from the beginning
that how you publish
is your business,
and I trust you.
The only thing I ask is you study
the data, you be responsible,
no names, no specifics,
anything ongoing
that's critical,
you don't release.
You just stick to the issue
of mass surveillance
and let the people decide.
You have our word on that, but
that's not the question. We have to ask...
Look, Ed, Ed,
right now the White House is
arranging a conference call
between Janine and
the intelligence services.
Now that's gonna happen
in a few hours.
Let's at least wait for that,
see what they say to her.
I'd say we pause a moment.
Yeah, I think
we should reassemble
in this room after
the call takes place,
so that's around midnight.
Be noon in New York.
All right.
I'll take another pass at the
PRISM story in the meantime.
Okay. We'll be in our hotel
room if you need us, okay?
Thanks, Ewen.
Yeah.
Okay.
Uh, do you mind maybe
we take a break from that?
For a second?
Oh, yeah. Sure, sorry.
You wanna take a look?
Might make you feel better.
On. It's not
recording, just on standby.
Okay.
When did this start for you?
Not wanting your photo taken?
Uh, probably in Japan.
I remember every time
a camera got pointed at me,
it was like...
Couldn't breathe.
Why was that?
I probably, uh, spent too much time
looking at other people through cameras.
Japan was your
first NSA job, right?
Yeah, well, as a contractor with Dell.
Had a lot of access.
Why'd you go
back after Geneva?
'Cause the money, and 'cause
I wanted to live in Japan.
And because of Obama,
actually.
You know, I thought things were
gonna get better with him.
I was wrong.
What was it like there?
Well,
in the first part of my day,
I was building this round-the-clock
backup system called Epic Shelter.
So, if there was
some catastrophe,
say, uh, terrorists
burned down every embassy
and NSA post in
the Middle East.
This program would ensure we
wouldn't lose any of that data.
But then, I would have to put it
aside when visitors would show up.
Hi, Ed.
NSA wanted to impress the
Japanese, show them our reach.
They loved
the live drone feeds.
This is over Pakistan.
Right now.
They were not as thrilled to
learn that we wanted them to help us
spy on
the Japanese population.
They said it was
against their laws.
Course we tapped
the entire country anyway.
And we didn't stop there,
'cause once we owned
their communications systems,
we started going after
their physical infrastructure.
We'd slip these little sleeper
programs into power grids,
dams, hospitals,
and the idea was
if the day came
when Japan was
no longer an ally,
it'd be lights out.
And it wasn't
just the Japanese.
We were planting malware
in Mexico, Germany,
Brazil, Austria.
I mean, China I can understand,
or Russia, or Iran,
or Venezuela, okay.
But Austria?
You're also being ordered
to follow most world leaders
and heads of industry.
You know, you're tracking
trade deals, sex scandals,
diplomatic cables
to give the U.S.
an advantage in
negotiations at the G8,
or leverage over
Brazilian oil companies,
or helping to oust some third-world
leader who's not playing ball.
And ultimately,
the truth sinks in
that no matter what justification
you're selling yourself,
this is not about terrorism.
Terrorism is the excuse.
This is about economic
and social control.
And the only thing
you're really protecting
is the supremacy
of your government.
Were you thinking about
going to journalists then?
No. No, that wouldn't have
occurred to me back then.
I just thought, you know,
the system will self-correct,
and the President will keep his
promise that got him elected...
That's actually when I first started
reading about you and your films.
It was in Glenn's blog.
You were being detained
in airports for hours.
Thirty-seven times. For investigating
your own country's wars.
That's why I'm going back to Berlin
to edit. You can trust me with this.
I do. Yeah.
I haven't trusted
anyone in years.
It was a welcome change when they
put me on terrorism watch duty.
Every day, I'd go in and I'd get
starting points for SIGINT,
which is signals intelligence.
A lot of them were American,
which felt strange,
but you just keep
reminding yourself,
I could stop a dirty bomb attack
and save thousands of lives.
The thing is, you're not just
following your bad guy targets.
You're also following
their metadata,
which is basically all the phone
numbers that they're in touch with.
Let's say your target
is a shady Iranian banker
operating out of Beirut,
okay.
So you're watching his stuff,
but you're also watching
all the people
that he talks to.
Including,
you know, his cousin,
who's just some dentist
living in Buffalo.
And then you have to watch
all of that guy's contacts.
And by the time you go a third hop
out from the original target,
you're watching this bartender
chat with her mother about Botox.
'Cause three hops from anyone
with, say, 40 contacts,
you're looking at a list
of 2.5 million people.
And there's that
moment when
you're sitting there and
the scale of it hits you.
The NSA is really tracking
every cell phone in the world.
No matter who you are,
every day of your life,
you're sitting in a database
just ready
to be looked at.
And not just terrorists, or
countries, or corporations, but you.
Was Lindsay with you
in Japan?
Japan was difficult
for us.
I guess you couldn't
talk about your work.
No.
There was this one night,
uh, towards the end,
when, uh, we were supposed to go
climb Mount Fuji the next day...
Wow!
Are you gonna
post that on Twitter?
No.
They're just for me.
What do you think?
You should delete those.
That's not quite the artistic
critique I was going for.
I'm sorry. You just...
You should...
You can't have stuff like
that on your hard drive.
Yes, I can.
Can you just please... I'm
asking you, can you delete them?
Russian hackers again?
No...
Is it us?
It's classified.
Am I a target?
Of course not.
Clearly someone is looking
at my nude portraits.
Okay. I shouldn't
have brought it up.
All right? It's issues
of national security.
Well, I am flattered
that my boobs
are considered an issue
of national security,
but you're gonna have to do
a lot better than that.
I'd rather not talk about stuff
that could land us in jail.
So that's what
the Band-Aids are about, then?
And your camera phobia?
Because of work?
Are they watching us?
Who are they watching?
No one, okay?
Let's just stop
talking about it.
Let's go to bed,
and wake up in the morning,
and go climb this fucking mountain.
All right?
Of course we're not
gonna talk about it.
What is that
supposed to mean?
It means that we don't talk
about anything anymore.
You work 12-hour days,
you come home depressed,
you play fucking video games,
and then you fall asleep.
Yeah, I'm tired
'cause I have a job.
That's what pays
for this apartment
in the most expensive city
in the world.
Which you asked me to come to knowing
that I did not have a work visa.
Okay, what if
you had one?
Would you really give up your
beautiful life of eating and sleeping
and going out all the time? You
think you'd really want a career?
A career like yours? Where I'm
miserable all the time? No.
That's called
responsibility.
Fuck this.
You know what?
You have no fucking idea
what it's like to be accountable
for other people's lives,
because you live
in a fairy tale land
where just there
are no consequences,
and no one ever gets hurt.
No. No,
you, you don't get hurt.
I get
fucking crushed.
Fucking bullshit!
I've done nothing to you!
That's exactly right.
You have done nothing!
You don't hang out with me,
you don't laugh with me,
you don't even
fucking touch me anymore.
I'm sorry.
Stop!
No!
We, uh, never made it to Mount Fuji.
And Lindsay left pretty
soon after that, and...
I was really lonely there.
But after three months, I left too.
I went back to Maryland.
And I promised her
I'd change.
And, uh, we moved
back in together.
Make
sure your knees stay bent,
and then you can fully extend
once you feel stable. Ready?
One, two, three.
All the way up.
Now you wanna clench
between your knees.
It'll burn,
but it's a good burn.
Perfect.
Twirl around.
Perfect! Oh, my
God, I'm so proud of you!
When you're really happy,
there's a large part of you
that just wants to stay happy.
And you start to think, what could
be more important than this?
What!
Is it okay?
Oh, my God.
It's so beautiful.
You know, lots of people
cruise happily through life.
Why can't I?
And I went back
to work at the CIA.
With backdoors...
My official title was
Solutions Consultant.
Basically I was hawking
overpriced hardware for a living.
But I thought
you had resigned?
Yeah, well, it was all
contract work after Geneva.
You know,
it's Booz Allen Hamilton,
or Dell, in partnership
With CIA or NSA, DIA.
That's the intelligence
community's revolving door.
How was it?
Being back in the States?
It was, uh, it was
really good to be home.
But Maryland was where things
started to turn for me.
Every time I felt like I was finally
letting go of all the anxiety
and all the questions that
used to keep me up at night,
I'd learn something else,
and I just couldn't ignore it.
Like, there were these three
high-level officials at the NSA,
Bill Binney, Ed Loomis,
and Kirk Wiebe.
They'd been filing complaints about
abuse and overreach for years.
That's all they did,
they just filed complaints,
and the FBI
raided their homes.
Then there was Thomas Drake.
Like the other three guys,
Drake was trying
to change things
from the inside.
But when nothing worked,
he did go to the press.
So they hit him with the Espionage
Act, and we were shocked.
The whole Intel community.
Why do you
think you were charged?
To send a chilling message.
To whom?
To other whistleblowers,
to others in the government,
not to speak out.
Do not tell truth to power.
We'll hammer you.
There's a new
program being developed
at the NSA's op
center on Oahu.
You'd be going up against
Chinese cyber divisions.
You interested?
Won't be the vast sums of
money you're making now,
but you'd be performing a critical
service for your country.
I know that's
important to you.
You mean service
like in Geneva?
Matt was a mistake. Shouldn't
have pushed you into that.
You didn't push me
into it.
I asked for exposure to field
ops, you gave it to me.
I won't hold that
against you.
Is there something
you do hold against me?
You didn't tell me
we were running
a dragnet on
the whole world, Corbin.
Great shooting, Ed.
Thank you.
That's terrific.
It's the one thing
in the Army I was good at.
You ever think, Ed,
since the Second World War, it's
been 60 years and still no WW III.
Why?
Because we've used our power
generally for the good of the world.
For prosperity, order.
How can we defend
ourselves against
nuclear war, terror attacks,
cyber-attacks
without a centralized
Intel factory
working around the world
night and day?
So we should catalogue
billions of people's lives?
Most people already catalogue
their lives for public consumption.
Well, they catalogue part cf their
lives, and they do it by choice.
We're not giving them the choice.
We're just taking everything.
Most Americans don't want
freedom, they want security.
It's a simple bargain. If...
Good girl! Good girl!
If you want to play
with all the new toys
and be safe, you pay
the price of admission.
Yeah, except people,
they don't even know
they've made that bargain.
Where's the modern
battlefield, soldier?
Everywhere.
What's
the first rule of battle?
Never reveal
your position.
And if one unauthorized person knew?
If Congress knew?
So would the enemy.
That, Mr. Snowden,
is the state of the world.
Secrecy is security,
and security is victory.
Thank you, sir.
Someone I want you
to meet.
Beautiful day for it, wasn't it?
Perfect weather.
Mr. Lowell. Jim.
How are you?
Dorian.
Alan.
Nice to see you.
Welcome to the U.S.
How'd you make
out today, Corbin?
Uh, very mediocre.
Nothing like Ed here.
Apparently the Army's training
people to shoot straight.
So this is Ed Snowden.
Yes, sir.
Pleasure to meet you.
The brains behind Epic Shelter.
That's right.
That's brilliant work.
Thank you, sir.
Yeah, I had a few questions
I wanted to ask you.
Uh, Jim. Will you
excuse me, gentlemen?
Excuse me, Alan.
Nice to meet you.
Yeah, it's proving very useful
to our UAV program.
Yes, I heard. With foreign
site Intel transfer.
Transfers happen
on collection now.
They go straight to the Pentagon,
Mossad if they need it.
Actionable immediately.
No one sees it.
It's improved
the response time
of our drone pilots
by a factor of ten.
Tell me, Ed. You worked signals
intelligence in Japan too, yes?
Yes, sir.
How'd you like it?
It was a very empowering job, sir.
With this new job in Hawaii,
you'd have even more access.
I asked Corbin to start the conversation.
But the offer is mine.
Take your time.
It's going to
take a few months
to get this program
on its feet.
If you'll excuse me,
gentlemen, I see dinner.
Beer, sir?
Thank you.
Sir, for you?
Uh, no, thank you.
Epic Shelter was meant
as a backup program.
Lowell is creating
this position for you, Ed.
You'd be the first contractor
outside Fort Meade
working counter-cyber.
It's your ticket to the top.
Do
you believe the United States
is the greatest country
in the world?
Yes.
Have you ever used
any programs
you were unauthorized for?
No.
We're not usually
supposed to submit our own work,
but my editor said
she'd make an exception.
Pretty neat, huh?
I get to
submit an entry.
You ignoring me
on purpose, or what?
No. Sorry.
Shit. Uh...
I was just thinking.
About what?
I wanted to talk to you
about it at dinner,
but let's just...
Will you come sit down?
Is everything okay?
Yeah.
Um...
The, uh, Deputy Director
of the NSA...
Hmm?
He offered me
a new position.
And, uh, that was a while back,
and now they need an answer.
Well, is it something
you want to do?
I'd be good at it.
Can you tell me anything about it?
You know I can't.
I know. Mission first.
Well, are there social perks?
White House galas, maybe?
The position
is in Hawaii.
We worked really hard
to get where we're at.
And you're willing to
just rip it all up again?
Like we finally have
a house that we love,
and a job that I like,
and real friends,
and we're close to our families.
I... I understand.
And if you want to stay,
then we're staying.
That's it.
Don't just say that
'cause I wanna hear it.
I'm not.
I let you go once,
I'm not gonna do it again.
Shit. I'm sorry.
The pasta.
It's gonna... One sec.
You know, I think I actually
came pretty close
to getting it
right this time.
I'll get some candles.
Oh, my God! Ed! Ed! Ed!
I know Tegretol.
I know it slows you down,
'cause I've seen it in my mom.
She's taken all kinds
of medications her whole life.
Well, they work
in 70% of cases.
Ed, epilepsy is
a serious condition.
If you have a seizure
driving yourself,
or with someone else
in the car,
or you're in a place
where you could fall,
this is not something
to be lightly regarded.
It's essential you commit
yourself to this medication.
Okay?
Yeah.
After you.
Oh, thank you.
I've been thinking about
what the doctor said.
About less stress.
A warmer climate
could help.
If Hawaii is something
that we decide
would be better
for you, I'll go.
Janine, how'd the White
House conversation go?
I made it quite clear
that we were in possession of
an authentic FISA court order.
They wanted to see it.
We refused.
Now I just pray that
it's actually authentic.
Are you actually
questioning that?
Glenn, no one has ever seen
a FISA court order.
There's no precedent here.
Our source risked his life
for that document. It's real.
Tell us, did the White House
make any specific claims
about national security that would
prevent you from publishing?
No. I asked them repeatedly, and
they had no substantive answer.
Then, there you go!
What more do you want?
You can go out and
know that you're safe.
Glenn, I'd like to talk to
Alan before we go any further.
When does he land?
In six hours.
No. Absolutely not! We're
sitting ducks here, Janine.
It's 1:00 p.m.
in New York.
If you don't get this out
in the next four hours,
you'll miss the evening news
on the East Coast.
But we can post
later tonight.
I'm sorry, Glenn.
But Alan's our editor-in-chief,
and I really think that...
Bullshit! The government knows
that we have these documents now.
The CIA could barge through this door
any minute, and you want more time!
Act like a fucking journalist
and stop stringing us along!
I just stood my ground
with the goddamn White House!
I've risked my career!
How dare you question
my commitment to this story!
Okay, let's just
keep our voices down...
No, you're right.
I am questioning it.
This is absolutely
inappropriate.
We are publishing ourselves.
You're out.
All right, Glenn.
We'll have it ready
by 4:00 p.m.
I have to go over the
story once more- Why?
Because it still
needs editing, damn you.
All this fucking intelligence
jargon is hurting our brains.
This PRISM story is
still incomprehensible.
PRISM is the second story,
Janine.
Verizon is the first story.
Have it ready to post by 4:00
p.m., 5:00 at the latest.
Ugh...
No games, or we're gone.
So, my new job
was counter-spying
on the Chinese at the NSA Regional
Cryptological Center on Oahu.
You mind placing your
bag down there, sir?
No personal laptops, no USB
sticks, no cell phones,
no electronic devices
of any kind?
No, sir.
Thank you.
Snow White!
Is that you?
Gabriel?
Dude, what the hell are you doing here?
Wow!
That's amazing.
Oh, man.
What, do you work here?
Yeah, yeah. Uh, three years,
two months, and five days.
But who's counting, right? Yeah.
It's like who knew a secret
underground World War II-era base
would become munchie heaven
for a thousand geeks, right?
So there's good pizza?
Good pizza, yeah.
That's important.
Elevator's slow
as shit, though.
Jesus.
It's something
else, huh?
Yeah. So, uh, what deck
are you working on?
You NTOC or ROC?
Between you and me? NTOC.
Cool. You get to
hack the hackers.
You're coming up
in the world.
Fresh
brains for you, Trevor.
Trevor James, Interactive
Ops Division Chief.
Ed Snowden.
I've been briefed.
Next door is NTOC.
Defense. That's where
you'll be working.
Over here we have ROC,
our offense.
Now I move between the two. We
run a tight ship here, Snowden.
Yes, sir.
You'll be working
with Haynes.
Hey. Patrick Haynes.
Hey. Nice to meet you.
Good to have you.
You watch out for him.
That's the smartest guy
in the building right here.
Come on.
Bro, how many languages
you speak, again?
I mean, seven in code,
six spoken, two signs.
That's cool.
Great. Another language
I can't understand.
Uh, I'll check you
later, Ed.
Okay. See you.
Wait for it.
Any moment.
We got 'em.
Lights over
Waziristan, gentlemen.
Way to go.
So what exactly do we
contribute to this?
The underside of
that Reaper drone
is fixed with
a big-ass antenna,
snarfing the hardware ID
of anything that broadcasts.
We do the geolocator.
My friend Tasha
here at the Air Force
rains hellfire.
There she is now.
Hey, Trev.
You likin' the show?
You know it. We track 'em,
you whack 'em.
And who
did we just track?
Not who, what.
We're targeting bad guys' cell phones.
Sometimes the SIM card.
Okay, and how do we
know the bad guy
is in possession of
the bad cell phone
when we strike?
Well, we don't...
Course we do. JSOC and CIA have
their people in the field.
What's the program name?
Epic Shelter.
It was originally some
backup program for, um...
Catastrophic site failure.
Yeah. How did
you know that?
I built it.
You?
Yeah.
You know I've actually...
I've been thinking about, uh,
another use
for Epic Shelter.
What'd you have
in mind?
Well, I was chatting
with Jim Lowell
about how there's
so many programs...
Deputy Director Lowell?
Yeah. Yeah.
And we were saying there's
so many programs nowadays,
it's kind of impossible to keep
track of them anymore, right?
So why not create
a centralized database.
Ah. Like an index.
Yeah, exactly. Something
that updates in real time,
you know, we've already got Epic
Shelter collecting our finished Intel.
We just need a web portal to
catalogue it, make it searchable.
Let me think about it.
In any case, I'd have to
run it past Fort Meade.
Of course.
Did you have a name?
Yeah, if it's not taken,
I'd call it Heartbeat.
Heartbeat. FEMALE DRONE
PILOT: Six, five, four,
three, two, one...
Engage target.
You okay down there?
Yep-
See, this is why I keep saying
we need to hike more.
You're right.
Hey, can you
look at me?
Oh!
Come on. It's been years.
By social media standards,
you don't even exist anymore.
Just one.
Okay, smile. Show me your teeth!
My elusive E,
finally captured.
So now I'm
a viable boyfriend?
Yes.
Such a shame, you used to be
such a cute little model.
Little?
Yeah.
Was I little?
Wait!
Stop!
Oh, my God.
What?
Think you got some sun!
I'm serious,
it looks good!
Well, that's impossible.
Hey, um, I've been meaning
to ask you, by the way.
Did you switch
pharmacies?
'Cause I tried to pick up
your prescription,
and I couldn't.
Why did you do that?
Uh, because I was there and
thought it would be helpful.
I stopped taking
the Tegretol.
What? When?
A couple months ago.
And you're just
now telling me?
I wanted to tell you.
I did, I just... I can't take
that stuff, it makes me groggy,
and I need to be
sharp for work.
I need to be on the
ball all the time.
What is it about
this fucking job
that makes it more
important than your life?
I don't understand.
Our government...
Our government, what?
Our government is hemorrhaging
billions of dollars
every year
to Chinese hackers.
And I've been hired
to shut them down.
A lot of people
are depending on me.
More so than
anyone else?
Yes.
No, this is bullshit.
We didn't come to Hawaii
for you to heal, did we?
There was never gonna be
a less stressful job out here.
Look, I feel like
I'm made to do this.
And if I don't do it, then I don't
know anybody else that can.
It's like I'm on a trajectory
that I can't turn back from.
You can
always turn back.
What I wanted to see
is if you could give me a yes
or no answer to the question,
"Does the NSA collect
any type of data at all
"on millions or hundreds
of millions of Americans?"
No, sir.
It does not?
Not wittingly.
There are cases where
they could inadvertently,
perhaps, uh, collect,
but not wittingly.
Oh, really?
Thank you, and
I'll have additional questions
to give you in writing
on that point.
Okay, so, uh,
what I wanted to
show you guys is, um,
the slide I ran across while
building this indexing program.
And what is this?
Okay. So, this is
data collection
for the month of March
worldwide,
emails and Skype calls.
So France, 70 million. Germany,
500 million. Brazil, two billion.
Inside the U.S.,
3.1 billion emails and calls.
That's not including any of
the telecom company data.
Okay, so what's
the collection in Russia?
Russia
is 1.5 billion.
Wait, so we're collecting
twice as much
in the U.S.
as we are in Russia?
Yeah, I figured it
was a lot, but...
This shit
is out of hand, man.
Wait. Have you shown
this to anyone else?
No, you guys
are the first.
Yeah, yeah, you know,
I'd be careful about that.
You know, it could seem
like you're rocking the boat.
Yeah, you're right.
No, I just, uh,
I needed to know
if I was the only one that
thought this was crazy.
What the fuck's
going on?
Hey, Trev.
What are you doing
in here?
It's nothing.
I was just showing them
this one slide,
I needed some input.
Why the heat map?
It's my bad, Trev.
I made a bet with Ed
about which country
we were collecting
the most signals from.
He said Iran,
I said Pakistan.
Who won?
Ed.
Yeah, I need to
head out. I'll see you guys.
You're going
down next time, man.
Yeah, okay.
No more bets.
And I don't want anyone
unauthorized in here again.
Especially not
with Heartbeat.
You're right.
Won't happen again.
Happy birthday!
...in Vegas,
looking at Afghanistan.
So we're running late hours.
So this blurry object comes
wandering into the strike zone.
We all knew
that it was a kid.
Poof
He's gone.
We called in for clarification,
and the report came back
that it was a dog.
Okay. Fine.
Shift's long, day and night.
I don't remember.
But same village,
two, three days later.
We see the funeral party.
We knew it was a kid
that they were burying.
Moms and dads wailing.
And then the order comes down.
Pretty clear. Hit 'em.
Poof
And they are gone
in a cloud of dust.
I mean, all of them.
The whole fuckin' family.
But the crazy thing is,
you come home after work,
kiss your wife, your kids,
back to work the next day.
Pretty soon, you know,
it just all becomes routine.
Fuck that.
You make it sound criminal, man.
It's war. It's a job.
Oh, I don't know, man. You
saying jobs can't be criminal?
Not if you're working
for the government.
You ever hear about
the Nuremberg trials, Trev?
They weren't that long ago.
Yeah. And we hung
the Nazi big shots, right?
Yeah, well, the big shots
were the first trial,
but then the next trial
were just the judges,
and lawyers,
and policemen, and guards,
and ordinary people just doing
their jobs, following orders.
That's where we got
the Nuremberg principles,
which then the UN made
into international law,
just in case ordinary jobs
become criminal again.
Just sayin'.
That's gotta
wake you up. You okay?
See, I told you
not to grab my hand.
...fucking touch me
anymore.
Dude! Dude, are you okay?
on, my God.
Ed, are you okay?
Are you okay, man?
I think he's having a...
Get away,
don't touch him.
- Don't touch him, don't touch him.
- Don't...
Hey, Ed. How are you?
How's your health?
Hey, Corbin. Uh...
It's fine.
Thanks for asking.
Must be nerve-wrecking
living with that condition.
You wouldn't know it
to look at your numbers.
Two hundred Chinese IPs down
in your first four months.
Those are, uh,
internal numbers.
Your colleague, Trevor,
comes out of the CIA like you.
He's been, uh, keeping me
informed on your progress.
It's outstanding
work. Heartbeat as well.
Thank you. Thanks.
That means a lot.
Lowell is very pleased.
He, uh, sends his regards.
That's great to hear.
He, um...
He doesn't know about
your heat map conversations,
or some of the ideas you've
expressed to your colleagues.
And he's not going to.
Yeah. Uh...
You know, Heartbeat
is proving a tricky project.
Collating from
multiple agencies,
and knowing
where to pull from.
It has helped to talk
it over with colleagues.
I believe in you, Ed.
Which is why nothing happened to
you after the derog in Geneva.
And I'm very grateful
you've looked out for me.
Or after you, uh,
omitted the truth
in your last polygraph.
What was it you were
withholding exactly?
Hmm?
You remember
that day in class,
you were talking to us
about the FISA Court?
You said that they approved
Bush's wiretapping programs.
Sometimes we're restricted
from telling the whole truth.
Doesn't give us
permission to lie.
Come on, Corbin,
the Director of National
Intelligence just lied to Congress!
Sorry.
Look at me.
Did you access
an unauthorized program
that I did not know about?
Yes.
It was, uh...
It was at Geneva.
It was Lindsay.
I was jealous.
And I'm sorry.
I never did it again.
Listen, Ed.
I know it's been up and down with
you and Lindsay since Geneva.
It's tough to keep any relationship going.
Few of us do.
So, if it'll give you any peace
of mind, I can assure you,
she's not sleeping with that
photographer friend of hers.
If that's what
you're thinking.
I have to go to
a Five Eyes conference
in Sydney in
a couple of weeks.
I'll stop off in Hawaii
on the way back.
Okay?
Okay. Thank you.
I'll see you soon.
Hey,Dad.
Good. Did you get the e-mail
that I sent you with the photos?
Uh-huh.
Well, I was hoping that
you could send me some...
What are you doing?
Sit down.
Your e-mail is
being monitored.
So?
No, it's different now.
It's not passive collection,
it's full-take surveillance.
It's all of your e-mails, calls,
texts, social media, everything.
It's also possible
that the house is bugged.
I'm not sure.
By who?
By a senior officer
at the CIA.
You in trouble?
Is it the Chinese thing?
Look, there's things
that I wish I could tell you,
but I can't because
you could get very hurt.
What's keeping you safe is
that you don't know anything.
I'm sorry, I really am. I didn't
want any of this for you.
But I know you would think
I was doing the right thing.
So just listen to me
for a sec, okay?
When we go back in the house,
everything has to appear normal.
We're gonna act like
nothing has changed,
but if you do notice
something that's weird,
you need to
tell me right away.
And you're gonna use an encrypted
e-mail that I'm setting up for you.
Oh, my God,
I don't think I can do this.
Yes, you can.
I know you can.
Do I even have a choice?
I'm asking you
to trust me.
And, Linds,
I think it'd be best
if you went back
to Maryland for a while.
Tell your parents that I'm
away on a business trip
and that you're homesick.
Are you going away?
Yes. But just
for a little while.
No.
No, I can't go.
Please.
Just until I get back.
I can't go.
You just said that we have to
appear like nothing's changed.
If both of us left at the same time,
wouldn't that seem suspicious?
I will do this for you.
But it is the last time.
Yo! Yo, you hear
about Trevor, bro?
No, what?
You remember that op
to own the Internet in Syria?
Yeah.
Trevor and his TAO team
crashed the core router.
Bro, the whole
country's gone dark.
Jesus Christ.
Figure it out!
Poor bastards.
Okay, I'm gonna, uh...
I gotta get to work.
Yeah. Yeah, me too.
So, Ed, how's, uh...
How's Heartbeat coming?
It's close.
It's very close.
Pull it up
on this monitor.
I'm still
trying to access...
Don't tell me you're
involved in this, too?
Well, Trevor fucking roped me into going
through their zero-day exploit codes.
This thing is
a fucking mess, man.
Why did I agree to this?
Good luck.
This is Patrick...
What you're gonna
do is you're gonna...
I told him, I...
Help them.
Okay.
Get back to work, guys.
No, Patrick, show me.
Talk about
getting hung out to dry.
Yeah. Are we set?
Trouble with the Navy?
One of those idiots ripped
some bullshit piece of Israeli code
and jammed it down our payload.
Can you fucking believe that?
Script kiddies.
I know, I know. I
should have listened to you.
God damn it.
Is this it?
Here.
Yeah, this is it.
I'm gonna make the goddamn
Israelis take the fall for this.
Come on.
Got it? I'm not taking
the fall for this.
Patrick.
Still working on it,
Trev. Hold on.
Nothing. Still nothing.
Yeah, but...
You, uh... You headed
home already?
Yeah. I'm not
feeling so well.
Might not be in
tomorrow either.
You know,
Trevor's kind of busy,
maybe you could
let him know for me?
Yeah. Yeah, man.
It'd be my pleasure.
You know,
if you're, uh...
If you're really not feeling well,
dude, maybe you should, uh,
go back to the States
and see your doctor.
I think that, you know,
folks would understand that.
That sounds like
a smart thing.
Take care of yourself.
Yeah, you too, bro.
Hey.
You ever play
with one of these?
Yeah, when I was a kid.
Yeah. You should try it.
It's hard.
I can't figure this out.
I don't know
about this.
Yeah, you gotta start with
the white cross, actually,
and then you do
the corners.
Oh, man.
Look, I love these things.
Hey, have
a good weekend, man.
You too, buddy.
All right.
It's live.
There's a link to
the FISA court order.
Well done, Janine.
I told you
she wasn't a pushover.
Well, it feels so
goddamn good to be wrong.
Breaking news tonight. Reports
that through a secret court order,
the Obama administration is
collecting the phone records
of millions of
Verizon customers.
That's been reported by the
Guardian newspaper in the U.K.
The specific court order shows
that all the information is going
to the National Security Agency.
How's that for
mainstream media, Glenn?
They can't shut this down now. And
we've got four more days of it.
They have no idea what
they're in store for.
That's fantastic!
...former Speaker of the House
is on the grill tonight and joins me now.
Another explosive
article has just appeared,
this time in
The Washington Post.
It's breaking news
that it reveals
another broad and secret U.S.
government surveillance program.
The Washington Post and the
Guardian in London reporting
that the NSA and the FBI
are tapping directly
into the central servers
of nine leading
Internet companies,
including Microsoft,
Yahoo, Google, Facebook,
AOL, Skype, YouTube,
and Apple.
The Post says
they're extracting audio,
video, photographs,
e-mails, documents,
and connection logs
that enable analysts to
track a person's movements
and contacts over time.
In the abstract, you can
complain about Big Brother
and how this is a potential
program run amok.
But when you actually
look at the details,
then I think we've struck
the right balance.
U.S. President
Barack Obama staunchly defends
U.S. government programs,
insisting that they were
conducted with broad safeguards
and to protect against abuse.
He reached the conclusion
that what was happening
inside this really
secretive agency
uh, was very
threatening and menacing
to privacy rights,
to Internet freedom,
to basic political liberty,
not only in the United States,
but all around the world.
And he felt it was his duty as
a human being to disclose it.
Uh, my name's Ed Snowden.
I'm 29 years old.
I work for
Booz Allen Hamilton
as an infrastructure analyst
for NSA in Hawaii.
The identity of the man
who sent the Obama...
You can't come forward against the
most powerful intelligence agencies
in the world without expecting
to have some risk.
They're just such
powerful adversaries.
So no one can
meaningfully oppose them.
He did it.
You know, if they want to get
you, they will get you, in time.
The kid did it!
And it's just gonna get
worse for the next generation,
as they extend
the capabilities
of this sort of
architecture of oppression.
And you realize that you might
be willing to accept any risk,
as long as the public is able
to make their own decision
about how
this is applied.
Because even if you haven't
done anything wrong,
you're being
watched and recorded.
Look, I had access to the
entire intelligence community.
So, if I had wanted
to harm the U.S.,
you could shut down the entire
surveillance system in an afternoon.
But that was never
my intention.
And I think anybody
that's making that argument,
they have to think,
if they were in my position,
living in Hawaii, in paradise,
and making a ton of money,
what would it take to make
you leave everything behind?
The fear that I think I have
most in regards to the outcome
for America of
these disclosures
is that nothing
will change.
In the coming months and the coming
years, it'll just get worse.
And then eventually,
at some point,
some new leader
will be elected
who flips the switch,
and the people won't be able to do
anything, by that point, to oppose it.
And it'll be
turnkey tyranny.
How you holding up?
Yeah, I'll be fine.
It's you guys that have
to start watching out
for yourselves now.
You know, if you have
any reason to believe
that you're about to be raided or
intercepted or breached in any way,
you format and destroy
all the data immediately.
You have
the encrypted backups.
And now, I...
I no longer have any access
to these files myself.
You guys have them all.
Uh...
Keep the focus on the stories,
that's all that matters.
If you'll excuse me, it's...
I think we should all get some rest.
We can use it.
Yeah. I should probably
lay down on a soft bed
while I still have
one available, right?
You rest well.
Thank you.
See you tomorrow.
Good night.
Can you at least tell me
where you're going?
Listen,
I know that I'm...
Ewen, I'm on
the second floor.
I don't see Tibbo.
No. No, no, wait.
Okay. I think I see him.
Shit!
There's press swarming
all over the hotel.
Yeah, I don't know.
I'll figure it out.
I'll stop them with a press
conference or something.
Hey, I'm Glenn. Look, we
really appreciate this.
We understand you're one of the
best lawyers in Hong Kong.
We'll do our best.
We're gonna take him to the UN
first, then I prefer not to reveal.
I understand.
Shit. They spotted me.
You guys get going.
Okay, I will take your questions
in an orderly fashion.
Where is Snowden?
Do you know where he is?
Come on,
please let us know!
Did you get them?
Yeah, this is the best
I could do.
You're meeting Tibbo
in five minutes,
on the skybridge
opposite the large mall.
I've met a lot of astonishing
people in my life, but you...
Okay, laddie.
Off you go.
I won't let you down.
You'd make a shitty journalist
without a camera.
Are you sure?
Yeah.
Okay. That's a great idea.
Thanks.
Oh! You don't want to
leave your luck behind.
Oh.
I think I'd like you
to have that.
Thanks for everything.
Thank you.
I have
a van on the street.
NSA leaker Edward
Snowden has now been charged formally
with espionage, theft, and
conversion of government property.
U.S.
officials have asked Hong Kong
to detain
the former contractor
on a provisional
arrest warrant.
Snowden has been
in Hong Kong since May...
...remember, that
was back reportedly on May 20th.
...Snowden has checked
out of the luxury hotel in Hong Kong,
where he had been holed up.
You might
turn your eyes away.
...not likely
take action against him
without an arrest
warrant from the U. S.
The Justice Department
had to go to Interpol so that Snowden,
if he tried to cross a border, he
could be intercepted and detained.
Snowden is still in hiding.
So again...
But the
Americans are now closing in.
They almost certainly know
where he is,
they just need Hong Kong's
approval to get him.
The Hong
Kong government does have
an extradition agreement
with Washington.
But the ultimate decision...
So the big
question here is, where is he now?
Thank you.
This is Ed. Ed, Mayana.
Hi, Ed. Welcome.
Thank you.
These are good people.
They won't talk.
I've been handling their cases for years.
They're like you.
That's so nice.
They're stateless.
Yeah.
So we're waiting on the UN
application for refugee status.
Yeah.
Just in case you're arrested,
this is where you can call me.
Yeah.
Good.
Thank you so much.
You may not feel it,
Ed, but you're not alone.
Thank you.
...his longtime
girlfriend, Lindsay Mills,
an amateur photographer,
has not been heard from.
It's believed
she's in seclusion
in her parents' home
in Maryland,
and has been questioned
by the FBI
and remains
under investigation.
Ten days have now gone by,
as the world looks for Edward Snowden.
Rumors have surfaced that a rich
supporter is hiding Snowden
somewhere in the Hong Kong
hills in a private mansion.
It is now
confirmed that Edward Snowden
has boarded a flight
from Hong Kong to Moscow.
The State Department
is very disappointed
in the authorities
in Hong Kong
for letting Snowden go.
He was accompanied
by a representative from WikiLeaks.
Snowden is trying
to make his way from Russia to Cuba,
and then to Ecuador
for political asylum.
Moscow airport
officials say he won't be permitted
to make his connective flight
because the U.S. government
has revoked his passport.
The United States
Secretary of State, John Kerry,
outraged that Russia is refusing
to arrest the American fugitive.
Now a man without a country
stranded inside the Moscow airport.
No, I'm not gonna
be scrambling jets, uh,
to get a 29-year-old hacker.
The President of Bolivia's plane
was forced down in
Austria airspace today
following U.S. suspicions that
Snowden may have been on board.
After 39 days in the airport hotel,
he's left with his Russian
lawyer and a legal advisor
from WikiLeaks, Sarah Harrison.
He can now enjoy
all of the sweet, sweet liberty
allowed under the regime
of President Vladimir Putin.
There is still
a thing called execution.
Mr. Snowden
actually deserves asylum
and protection
around the globe.
But he does have asylum
in Russia at least.
He can engage in
the debate he started.
And the world
now has an example
that you can do
the right thing,
and you don't have to end up
in a cage, one room, a prison.
After more than a year
in the country under temporary asylum,
Edward Snowden has received a
three-year residency permit in Russia.
And now,
here live from Moscow,
Edward Snowden.
Hi, Ed. How you doing?
Thank you.
Uh, forgive me if I get my
bearings a little bit here.
People always said
I was kind of a robot.
How is it that
you came to be in Russia?
Well, I never intended
to come here.
You know, my passport was revoked
en route to Latin America.
So when people say,
"Why are you in Russia?"
I say,
"Ask the State Department."
Does that mean you're willing
to go back and face trial?
Absolutely, if it was
a fair and public trial.
Unfortunately, that's not
what would happen right now,
as long as the Espionage Act is
being used against whistleblowers.
Do you still
think it was worth it?
Yes, I do.
Without the information
to start a public debate,
we're lost.
You know...
The people being able
to question our government
and hold it accountable,
that's the principle that the United
States of America was founded on.
So if we want to protect
our national security,
we should be protecting
that principle.
What if your
argument falls on deaf ears?
What if our leaders
don't act?
I believe that,
if nothing changes,
more and more people all over
the world will come forward.
Whistleblowers and journalists,
but also regular citizens.
And when those in power try to
hide by classifying everything,
we will call them out on it.
And when they try to scare us into
sacrificing our basic human rights,
we won't be intimidated,
and we won't give up,
and we will not be silenced.
You're alone in
a foreign country,
you'll be extradited
if you try to leave.
That must be hard.
When I left Hawaii,
I lost everything.
And I had a stable life.
A stable love.
Family. Future.
And I lost that life,
but I've gained
a new one,
and I'm incredibly
fortunate.
And I think
the greatest freedom
that I've gained
is the fact that I no longer have to
worry about what happens tomorrow,
because I'm happy with
what I've done today.
Live from the Internet,
Edward Snowden!
Has your
mindset changed about him?
Is he now more whistleblower
than he is a, uh, hacker?
What is going
to happen to Edward Snowden?
He's going to die in Moscow.
He's not coming home.
Edward Snowden,
is he a traitor or a hero?
He stole
very important information.
We have
breaking news tonight...
Among the reforms,
work with Congress to change how
the NSA collects phone records.
Mandate more transparency
by the secret court
that regularly approves
the surveillance.
Well, is it
a victory for Edward Snowden?
That's gonna depend
on the eye of the beholder.
The American
government was acting illegally.
I don't think he should
be brought home without facing the music.
Snowden played
a very important role
in educating
the American people
to the degree in which our civil
liberties and our constitutional rights
are being undermined.